>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
so, the next thing we'll do,
maybe is, why don't we just
introduce a bit of color?
So I'm gonna change this to say color,
and I'm gonna create a new
variable called color, rather than
putting it all in a single line.
And maybe what we'll do, is we'll say,
we can start to play around here with
some math, sometimes, it's kind of fun.
So we can, I'm sort of just riffing here,
but we can say sign.
This is like Math.sign in JavaScript.
We can say sin of time, and
we can just try a few different variables.
This might give us an odd effect
where it goes to pure white, and
then, it sort of fades down to black.
And what's happening is that we're
putting time which is a, in seconds,
between zero and how ever many
seconds this loop is running for.
And we're doing sin with time.
And that's producing a number
between negative one and one.
So maybe what we'll do, is we'll try and
create a colorful gradient, instead of
just making a black and white gradient.
So maybe what I'll do, is I'll go back
to using vuv.x to create a gradient.
And the next thing we're gonna do is maybe
interpolate between one color and another.
And so, what we can do is create
colorA and let's make that red.
And then, we can create colorB,
and let's make that green, or
blue, or whatever you'd like.
Just by setting a different component,
so we're using 100, 010.
And here, instead of doing
this line with the gradient,
maybe what we can do is we can say,
I want to mix from colorA to colorB
based on this gradient value.
And we can introduce this new key word,
called mix, and
it's a function that's built into GLSL.
And the way it works, is you specify
the A and B that you wanna mix between.
And then,
you specify the value between 0 and 1.
And if you remember back to earlier in
our lesson, we were talking about lurp.
And that was at the very start when
we were trying to create that margin.
And the way it works, is that you pass
in a minimum, and you pass in a maximum.
And then,
you pass in some value between 0 and 1.
And if you pass in a value that's 0,
it's gonna be the minimum,
one is gonna be the maximum.
Anything in between there, and it's gonna
slowly interpolate between those two.
And that's exactly what's
happening with mix.
Mix is actually just another way of
saying lerp in the case of shaders.
It's the exact same
function down to the code.
So now, I mean,
you could try tweaking these things.
Maybe make it less green or less red,
still, we're not really there yet.
So maybe what we'll do, is maybe
we'll try and mask this as a circle.
Because remember our branding
that we're sort of going for
here, is a circle, and
it's got a white background.
And all of the colors are happening
inside of that circle.
So to do that, we're gonna have to
think about how do we say, for
certain pixels, we want it to be white.
And for everything within a circle,
we want it to be colorful.
And so, what we'll do, is we will try and
find the center coordinate,
and then, try and see based on how far
away from the center the current pixel is.
That's how we're gonna end up changing it,
whether it's colorful, or
whether it's not colorful.
And so, this is where it starts
to get a little bit more,
you have to wrap your head
around the idea that shaders,
you can't just say I want
the third pixel from the left,
you can't just say I want the top
left of the screen to be blue.
You have to just act on
being blind to other pixel.
You can't operate them on neighboring
pixels and stuffs like that.
So what we'll do, is we'll
have a vec2 called center,
and we do vUv- 0.5.
Another way of writing this
would be to say vec2.5.5,
the way I just wrote that is the same
no matter what, so it's basically
taking the vUv, the UV coordinates,
and subtracting 0.5, and now,
what we have is this center value is the
exact center of the screen, and now, what
we wanna find is how far away from the
center of the screen is the current pixel.
So what we're gonna do, is we're gonna
say is dist is a float which is a number,
decimal value number, and
we're gonna say length (center).
And so far,
the visuals aren't changing, and
that's because our pixel
color hasn't changed.
So we have to actually change that.
So one thing we can try and
do is, instead of using one here,
we can set the alpha to dist.
And it's hard to see on the screen,
but what you're gonna have.
It's this black hole effect where all
the colors are gonna be on the outer rim,
and it's gonna go black as you get
closer and closer to the center.
And what's actually happening,
is that the value in the very center,
the pixel in the very center, is saying
the distance from the center is 0,
because it's at the very center.
And the pixels that are far away from
the center, they're gonna be closer to 1,
or closer to some large value like 1.
And it's gonna slowly increase.
This length function here
is just saying what is the,
this is where it starts to get
a bit more like math-y, and
this is something that, at first,
when I was learning this stuff, I didn't
understand the implications of what length
means, and that's okay if you don't.
But if you're familiar with vectors or
anything like that,
length is just the magnitude of a vector.
But again,
it's maybe not something that you'll
understand the first time you look at it,
especially, if you aren't so familiar
with vectors and that kind of math.
And that's okay,
don't worry about it too much.
But what we'll do, is we'll say that
if the distance is greater than,
let's say, 0.5, let's make our alpha one,
and if the distance is less than 0.5,
let's make our alpha 0.
So we're just gonna use a here.
Just like in JavaScript,
it's the same thing.
And you'll notice now that
we have this big circle,
we can make the circle smaller by just
making that 0.5 less, like a 0.25.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: You'll also
notice that it's a bit like an ellipse,
rather than a circle.
And what we'll do in a second,
is we're gonna fix that.
But before we fix that,
we have to actually try and
make this a bit more like the primary
branding that we had before, cuz remember,
it's colorful on the inside,
and it's white on the outside.
So I'm gonna just flip these numbers.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And so, now,
we have something a little bit closer.
The colors are a bit weird and ugly.
It's a little bit like a squashed circle
rather than a perfect circle, and
the background is black, and
we need the background to be white.
But we're getting there,
we're getting closer.
The first thing I'm gonna do with this
code, is I'm gonna fix this circle, so
that it's not squashed
depending on the aspect ratio.
And so, to do that,
we will pass in a uniform from JavaScript.
So this is a good
opportunity to understand
how do we pass in values from JavaScript.
So first, let's say, what we need to do to
fix this aspect ratio correction stuff,
is we need to correct the coordinates
based on the width and
height of the screen, as it currently is.
And we need to correct it based on aspect
ratio, which we're gonna use float for.
So it's just gonna be a single value,
gonna call it aspect.
I'm gonna scroll down.
Once we've added this
uniform float aspect.
I'm gonna scroll down and I'm gonna go
to my uniforms, and you'll see already,
we're passing down time, and so, that's
how we had that weird effect earlier.
We're gonna just pass down one
more thing called aspect, and
the way we pass it down,
is using a function and returning a value.
And the function, this object
here that's being destructured,
is the same props that we've been
using all day from Canvas Sketch.
So we have things like width and height.
We have time.
We have play head.
We have all those other props
that comes with Canvas Sketch.
And so, the way we're gonna do this
is we're gonna take the props from
the Canvas Sketch, we're gonna take
the current width and the current height,
divide the current width
by the current height, and
we send that value to the shader.
So it just looks like that, make sure
that this property is called aspect.
And then, up here, we actually have to
use this aspect value, and to do that,
we're going to squeeze
the center by that aspect ratio.
And what's gonna end up happening,
is that we're shrinking the width
of the the circle here
to be a bit better when
we change the size of our image or
our browser, in our case.